docs/designers-developers/developers/filters/editor-filters.md, before:

# Editor Filters (Experimental)

To modify the behavior of the editor experience, Gutenberg exposes the following Filters:

### `editor.PostFeaturedImage.imageSize`

Used to modify the image size displayed in the Post Featured Image component. It defaults to `'post-thumbnail'`, and will fail back to the `full` image size when the specified image size doesn't exist in the media object. It's modeled after the `admin_post_thumbnail_size` filter in the Classic Editor.

_Example:_

```js
var withImageSize = function( size, mediaId, postId ) {
	return 'large';
};

wp.hooks.addFilter( 'editor.PostFeaturedImage.imageSize', 'my-plugin/with-image-size', withImageSize );
```


### `editor.PostAuthor.disabled`

Used to disable the PostAuthor component, this is the author list in the sidebar. This can be used if you have a post type that does support `author` but you do not want the author component shown.  You can use [remove_post_type_support](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/remove_post_type_support/) to disable the component by post type.

_Example:_

```js
wp.hooks.addFilter( 'editor.PostAuthor.disabled', 'my_callback', function() { return true; } );
```

Commit message:

Update documentation to use component field

docs/designers-developers/developers/filters/editor-filters.md, after:

# Editor Filters (Experimental)

To modify the behavior of the editor experience, Gutenberg exposes the following Filters:

### `editor.PostFeaturedImage.imageSize`

Used to modify the image size displayed in the Post Featured Image component. It defaults to `'post-thumbnail'`, and will fail back to the `full` image size when the specified image size doesn't exist in the media object. It's modeled after the `admin_post_thumbnail_size` filter in the Classic Editor.

_Example:_

```js
var withImageSize = function( size, mediaId, postId ) {
	return 'large';
};

wp.hooks.addFilter( 'editor.PostFeaturedImage.imageSize', 'my-plugin/with-image-size', withImageSize );
```


### `editor.PostAuthor.component`

Used to specify a different component for PostAuthor, this is the author list in the sidebar.

If you simply want to disable the PostAuthor field for a post type, you can use [remove_post_type_support](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/remove_post_type_support/) to disable the component by post type.

_Example:_

```js
const myAuthorComponent = wp.element( 'div', {}, 'My Authors Content' );
wp.hooks.addFilter( 'editor.PostAuthor.component', 'my_callback', function() { return myAuthorComponent; } );
```
